feat: configuration file support (#104)
stjude-rust-labs/sprocket: docs/cli/config.md

Reviewer: this page needs to specify how different config files are merged. Have we finalized that? Because I'm not 100% clear on the specifics (but about to dig into that part of the code)

Author: I think that is final, unless there are any new suggestions. I'll add it here.

Author: Ah, wait. The first line describes the order:

> The Sprocket configuration loader sources from command-line options, environment variables, and configuration files, in that priority order.

Reviewer: Have we considered searching and using "highest priority found" instead of merging? it's much easier to explain and communicate to users, but does somewhat limit flexibility.

Having a `config resolve` command does make the complexity easier to deal with, so maybe the current approach is worth it.

Reviewer: > Ah, wait. The first line describes the order:
> 
> > The Sprocket configuration loader sources from command-line options, environment variables, and configuration files, in that priority order.

The merge logic still needs to be communicated. Something like "atomic values are overwritten by higher priority configs. Lists are appended."

Author: I added a new section that describes the merge and provides a small example.

Author: > Have we considered searching and using "highest priority found" instead of merging? it's much easier to explain and communicate to users, but does somewhat limit flexibility.
> 
> Having a `config resolve` command does make the complexity easier to deal with, so maybe the current approach is worth it.

That's certainly a change we could make. Personally, I think there is some value in the combination approach. For example, I could see a user deciding they never want to see a particular lint rule and keeping that in a config (like `$HOME`). Then per-repository having a `sprocket.toml` that ignores lints particular to that project. Maybe we're overcomplicating it, but it does seem useful (in theory). That said, a user can always just have a single config file. 

Maybe we add an additional flag like `--only-config` (or a better name) that takes a file path and ignores any other found configs. Or it could be something like `--ignore-other-configs` that gets specified with the `--config` argument to stop loading alternative configuration files.

Reviewer 2: I agree that the paradigm Andrew describes in the first paragraph is desirable. I think adding more flags, as suggested in the second paragraph, is probably not a great idea, as it risks creating a mess of different configuration options and parameters (in my mind, adding new command line flags has an ever-rising cost of increasing the mental burden overall to work with the tool).

Reviewer: That ties into another idea I think I shared on Slack. Some flag that blocks looking for configs entirely (maybe `--no-config`). Maybe a user could write `sprocket lint --no-config --config ../path/sprocket.toml` to load a specific config (and only that config). Or just `sprocket lint --no-config` to get the default "out of the box" behavior

Author: Another thought, I believe the Figment crate tracks metadata. So the `resolve` command could potentially annotate the output configuration to explain where the values originated.

Author: > Another thought, I believe the Figment crate tracks metadata. So the `resolve` command could potentially annotate the output configuration to explain where the values originated.

This works, but only for simple types. For array types (e.g. `check.except`), it only stores the original source location (e.g. when `default()` was loaded).

Reviewer: I still think we should have `--no-config` flag (although not tied to that name) which will skip reading any config files and just use all default values for each sub command. I understand @claymcleod 's argument and I agree in the principle, but I think there's value to providing a simple way to get an "out of the box" invocation of `sprocket`. And the mental complexity/burden for this flag is fairly straightforward (as opposed to some of the other ideas discussed).

Author: Discussed via Slack, but I implemented a `--skip-config-search` argument that disables the config search.

# Configuration Files

The Sprocket configuration loader sources from command-line options, environment variables, and configuration files, in that priority order.

## Configuration Options

### Command-line configuration

A configuration file can be specified at runtime on the command line using the `--config` argument.

### Environment Variable

The path to a configuration file can be specified via the environment variable `SPROCKET_CONFIG`.

### Current Working Directory

Sprocket will look for a `sprocket.toml` in the current working directory when the `sprocket` command runs.

### XDG_CONFIG_HOME

> Sprocket will attempt to read a configuration file from `XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sprocket/sprocket.toml`. The location of `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is operating system dependent. The platform-specific values can be found [here](https://docs.rs/dirs/latest/dirs/fn.config_dir.html). On MacOS, Sprocket will attempt to read the configuration from `HOME/.config/sprocket/sprocket.toml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sprocket will attempt to read a configuration file from `XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sprocket/sprocket.toml`. The location of `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is operating system dependent. The platform-specific values can be found [here](https://docs.rs/dirs/latest/dirs/fn.config_dir.html). On MacOS, Sprocket will attempt to read the configuration from `$HOME/.config/sprocket/sprocket.toml`.
```

> Sprocket will attempt to read a configuration file from `XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sprocket/sprocket.toml`. The location of `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is operating system dependent. The platform-specific values can be found [here](https://docs.rs/dirs/latest/dirs/fn.config_dir.html). On MacOS, Sprocket will attempt to read the configuration from `$HOME/.config/sprocket/sprocket.toml`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On systems that support the [XDG Base Directory Specification](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/latest/), such as many Linux distributions, Sprocket will attempt to read configuration from `XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sprocket/sprocket.toml`. Please note that the location of `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is operating system dependent.

On MacOS, Sprocket will attempt to read the configuration from `$HOME/.config/sprocket/sprocket.toml`.

On Windows, Sprocket will attempt to read configuration from `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming`.

The platform-specific locations can also be found [here](https://docs.rs/dirs/latest/dirs/fn.config_dir.html). 
```

## Configuration Values

> Running the command `sprocket config` will print the effective configuration. The default configuration can be written out using the `--generate` argument.

Reviewer 2: I would personally view the flag name `--generate` confusing here: it's "generating" a configuration either way, just one is the current resolved configuration and one is the default configuration.

I almost am thinking a required subsubcommand of `resolve` or `init` might be good here. That might at least make it more concrete that there are two different lenses for this subcommand.

# Configuration Files

> The Sprocket configuration loader sources from command-line options, environment variables, and configuration files, in that priority order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sprocket configuration loader sources and merges values from a location specified by a command-line option, an environment variable, and common configuration locations, in that priority order.
```
my edit could potentially use some more word smithing but I think is more accurate/clear
